<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Act V</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction z3998:drama">
		<section id="act-5" epub:type="chapter z3998:scene">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Act</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</span>
			</h2>
			<section id="scene-1-1" epub:type="z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</span>
				</h3>
				<p>Before <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia’s</b> house.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Fabian</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Fabian</td>
							<td>Now, as thou lovest me, let me see his letter.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>Good Master Fabian, grant me another request.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Fabian</td>
							<td>Any thing.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>Do not desire to see this letter.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Fabian</td>
							<td>This is, to give a dog, and in recompense desire my dog again.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Duke Orsino</b>, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</b>, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Curio</b>, and Lords.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duke Orsino</td>
							<td>Belong you to the Lady Olivia, friends?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>Ay, sir; we are some of her trappings.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duke Orsino</td>
							<td>I know thee well; how dost thou, my good fellow?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>Truly, sir, the better for my foes and the worse for my friends.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duke Orsino</td>
							<td>Just the contrary; the better for thy friends.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>No, sir, the worse.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duke Orsino</td>
							<td>How can that be?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>Marry, sir, they praise me and make an ass of me; now my foes tell me plainly I am an ass: so that by my foes, sir I profit in the knowledge of myself, and by my friends, I am abused: so that, conclusions to be as kisses, if your four negatives make your two affirmatives why then, the worse for my friends and the better for my foes.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duke Orsino</td>
							<td>Why, this is excellent.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>By my troth, sir, no; though it please you to be one of my friends.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duke Orsino</td>
							<td>Thou shalt not be the worse for me: there’s gold.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>But that it would be double-dealing, sir, I would you could make it another.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duke Orsino</td>
							<td>O, you give me ill counsel.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>Put your grace in your pocket, sir, for this once, and let your flesh and blood obey it.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duke Orsino</td>
							<td>Well, I will be so much a sinner, to be a double-dealer: there’s another.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>Primo, secundo, tertio, is a good play; and the old saying is, the third pays for all: the triplex, sir, is a good tripping measure; or the bells of Saint Bennet, sir, may put you in mind; one, two, three.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duke Orsino</td>
							<td>You can fool no more money out of me at this throw: if you will let your lady know I am here to speak with her, and bring her along with you, it may awake my bounty further.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>Marry, sir, lullaby to your bounty till I come again. I go, sir; but I would not have you to think that my desire of having is the sin of covetousness: but, as you say, sir, let your bounty take a nap, I will awake it anon. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit.</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td>Here comes the man, sir, that did rescue me.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Officers</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duke Orsino</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>That face of his I do remember well;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Yet, when I saw it last, it was besmear’d</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As black as Vulcan in the smoke of war:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A bawbling vessel was he captain of,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For shallow draught and bulk unprizable;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With which such scathful grapple did he make</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With the most noble bottom of our fleet,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That very envy and the tongue of loss</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Cried fame and honour on him. What’s the matter?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Officer</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Orsino, this is that Antonio</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That took the Phoenix and her fraught from Candy;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And this is he that did the Tiger board,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>When your young nephew Titus lost his leg:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Here in the streets, desperate of shame and state,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In private brabble did we apprehend him.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>He did me kindness, sir, drew on my side;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But in conclusion put strange speech upon me:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I know not what ’twas but distraction.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duke Orsino</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Notable pirate! thou salt-water thief!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>What foolish boldness brought thee to their mercies,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Whom thou, in terms so bloody and so dear,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Hast made thine enemies?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Orsino, noble sir,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Be pleased that I shake off these names you give me:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Antonio never yet was thief or pirate,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Though I confess, on base and ground enough,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Orsino’s enemy. A witchcraft drew me hither:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That most ingrateful boy there by your side,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>From the rude sea’s enraged and foamy mouth</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Did I redeem; a wreck past hope he was:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>His life I gave him and did thereto add</span>
									<br/>
									<span>My love, without retention or restraint,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>All his in dedication; for his sake</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Did I expose myself, pure for his love,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Into the danger of this adverse town;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Drew to defend him when he was beset:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Where being apprehended, his false cunning,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Not meaning to partake with me in danger,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Taught him to face me out of his acquaintance,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And grew a twenty years removed thing</span>
									<br/>
									<span>While one would wink; denied me mine own purse,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which I had recommended to his use</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Not half an hour before.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td>How can this be?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duke Orsino</td>
							<td>When came he to this town?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>To-day, my lord; and for three months before,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>No interim, not a minute’s vacancy,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Both day and night did we keep company.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</b> and Attendants.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duke Orsino</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Here comes the countess: now heaven walks on earth.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But for thee, fellow; fellow, thy words are madness:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Three months this youth hath tended upon me;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But more of that anon. Take him aside.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>What would my lord, but that he may not have,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Wherein Olivia may seem serviceable?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Cesario, you do not keep promise with me.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td>Madam!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duke Orsino</td>
							<td>Gracious Olivia⁠—</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>What do you say, Cesario? Good my lord⁠—</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td>My lord would speak; my duty hushes me.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>If it be aught to the old tune, my lord,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>It is as fat and fulsome to mine ear</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As howling after music.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duke Orsino</td>
							<td>Still so cruel?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>Still so constant, lord.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duke Orsino</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>What, to perverseness? you uncivil lady,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To whose ingrate and unauspicious altars</span>
									<br/>
									<span>My soul the faithfull’st offerings hath breathed out</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That e’er devotion tender’d! What shall I do?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>Even what it please my lord, that shall become him.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duke Orsino</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Why should I not, had I the heart to do it,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Like to the Egyptian thief at point of death,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Kill what I love?⁠—a savage jealousy</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That sometimes savours nobly. But hear me this:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Since you to non-regardance cast my faith,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And that I partly know the instrument</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That screws me from my true place in your favour,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Live you the marble-breasted tyrant still;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But this your minion, whom I know you love,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And whom, by heaven I swear, I tender dearly,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Him will I tear out of that cruel eye,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Where he sits crowned in his master’s spite.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Come, boy, with me; my thoughts are ripe in mischief:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I’ll sacrifice the lamb that I do love,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To spite a raven’s heart within a dove.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>And I, most jocund, apt and willingly,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To do you rest, a thousand deaths would die.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>Where goes Cesario?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>After him I love</span>
									<br/>
									<span>More than I love these eyes, more than my life,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>More, by all mores, than e’er I shall love wife.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If I do feign, you witnesses above</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Punish my life for tainting of my love!</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>Ay me, detested! how am I beguiled!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td>Who does beguile you? who does do you wrong?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Hast thou forgot thyself? is it so long?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Call forth the holy father.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duke Orsino</td>
							<td>Come, away!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>Whither, my lord? Cesario, husband, stay.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duke Orsino</td>
							<td>Husband!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>Ay, husband: can he that deny?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duke Orsino</td>
							<td>Her husband, sirrah!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td>No, my lord, not I.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Alas, it is the baseness of thy fear</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That makes thee strangle thy propriety:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Fear not, Cesario; take thy fortunes up;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Be that thou know’st thou art, and then thou art</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As great as that thou fear’st.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Priest</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>O, welcome, father!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Father, I charge thee, by thy reverence,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Here to unfold, though lately we intended</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To keep in darkness what occasion now</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Reveals before ’tis ripe, what thou dost know</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Hath newly pass’d between this youth and me.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Priest</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>A contract of eternal bond of love,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Confirm’d by mutual joinder of your hands,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Attested by the holy close of lips,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Strengthen’d by interchangement of your rings;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And all the ceremony of this compact</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Seal’d in my function, by my testimony:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Since when, my watch hath told me, toward my grave</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I have travell’d but two hours.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duke Orsino</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>O thou dissembling cub! what wilt thou be</span>
									<br/>
									<span>When time hath sow’d a grizzle on thy case?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Or will not else thy craft so quickly grow,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That thine own trip shall be thine overthrow?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Farewell, and take her; but direct thy feet</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Where thou and I henceforth may never meet.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td>My lord, I do protest⁠—</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>O, do not swear!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Hold little faith, though thou hast too much fear.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Andrew</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Andrew</td>
							<td>For the love of God, a surgeon! Send one presently to Sir Toby.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>What’s the matter?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Andrew</td>
							<td>He has broke my head across and has given Sir Toby a bloody coxcomb too: for the love of God, your help! I had rather than forty pound I were at home.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>Who has done this, Sir Andrew?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Andrew</td>
							<td>The count’s gentleman, one Cesario: we took him for a coward, but he’s the very devil incardinate.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duke Orsino</td>
							<td>My gentleman, Cesario?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Andrew</td>
							<td>“Od’s lifelings, here he is! You broke my head for nothing; and that that I did, I was set on to do’t by Sir Toby.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Why do you speak to me? I never hurt you:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>You drew your sword upon me without cause;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But I bespoke you fair, and hurt you not.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Andrew</td>
							<td>If a bloody coxcomb be a hurt, you have hurt me: I think you set nothing by a bloody coxcomb.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Toby Belch</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>Here comes Sir Toby halting; you shall hear more: but if he had not been in drink, he would have tickled you othergates than he did.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duke Orsino</td>
							<td>How now, gentleman! how is’t with you?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Toby Belch</td>
							<td>That’s all one: has hurt me, and there’s the end on’t. Sot, didst see Dick surgeon, sot?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>O, he’s drunk, Sir Toby, an hour agone; his eyes were set at eight i” the morning.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Toby Belch</td>
							<td>Then he’s a rogue, and a passy measures panyn: I hate a drunken rogue.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>Away with him! Who hath made this havoc with them?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Andrew</td>
							<td>I’ll help you, Sir Toby, because well be dressed together.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Toby Belch</td>
							<td>Will you help? an ass-head and a coxcomb and a knave, a thin-faced knave, a gull!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>Get him to bed, and let his hurt be look’d to. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</b>, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Fabian</b>, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Toby Belch</b>, and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Andrew</b>.</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Sebastian</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sebastian</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I am sorry, madam, I have hurt your kinsman:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But, had it been the brother of my blood,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I must have done no less with wit and safety.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>You throw a strange regard upon me, and by that</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I do perceive it hath offended you:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Pardon me, sweet one, even for the vows</span>
									<br/>
									<span>We made each other but so late ago.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duke Orsino</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>One face, one voice, one habit, and two persons,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A natural perspective, that is and is not!</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sebastian</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Antonio, O my dear Antonio!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>How have the hours rack’d and tortured me,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Since I have lost thee!</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
							<td>Sebastian are you?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sebastian</td>
							<td>Fear’st thou that, Antonio?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antonio</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>How have you made division of yourself?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>An apple, cleft in two, is not more twin</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Than these two creatures. Which is Sebastian?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>Most wonderful!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sebastian</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Do I stand there? I never had a brother;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Nor can there be that deity in my nature,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of here and every where. I had a sister,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Whom the blind waves and surges have devour’d.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of charity, what kin are you to me?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>What countryman? what name? what parentage?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Of Messaline: Sebastian was my father;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Such a Sebastian was my brother too,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>So went he suited to his watery tomb:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If spirits can assume both form and suit</span>
									<br/>
									<span>You come to fright us.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sebastian</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>A spirit I am indeed;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But am in that dimension grossly clad</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which from the womb I did participate.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Were you a woman, as the rest goes even,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I should my tears let fall upon your cheek,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And say “Thrice-welcome, drowned Viola!”</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td>My father had a mole upon his brow.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sebastian</td>
							<td>And so had mine.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>And died that day when Viola from her birth</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Had number’d thirteen years.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sebastian</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>O, that record is lively in my soul!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>He finished indeed his mortal act</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That day that made my sister thirteen years.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>If nothing lets to make us happy both</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But this my masculine usurp’d attire,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Do not embrace me till each circumstance</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of place, time, fortune, do cohere and jump</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That I am Viola: which to confirm,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I’ll bring you to a captain in this town,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Where lie my maiden weeds; by whose gentle help</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I was preserved to serve this noble count.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>All the occurrence of my fortune since</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Hath been between this lady and this lord.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sebastian</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</b>.</i> So comes it, lady, you have been mistook:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But nature to her bias drew in that.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>You would have been contracted to a maid;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Nor are you therein, by my life, deceived,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>You are betroth’d both to a maid and man.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duke Orsino</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Be not amazed; right noble is his blood.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If this be so, as yet the glass seems true,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I shall have share in this most happy wreck. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</b>.</i></span>
									<br/>
									<span>Boy, thou hast said to me a thousand times</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thou never shouldst love woman like to me.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>And all those sayings will I overswear;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And those swearings keep as true in soul</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As doth that orbed continent the fire</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That severs day from night.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duke Orsino</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Give me thy hand;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And let me see thee in thy woman’s weeds.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>The captain that did bring me first on shore</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Hath my maid’s garments: he upon some action</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Is now in durance, at Malvolio’s suit,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A gentleman, and follower of my lady’s.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>He shall enlarge him: fetch Malvolio hither:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And yet, alas, now I remember me,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>They say, poor gentleman, he’s much distract.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Re-enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</b> with a letter, and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Fabian</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>A most extracting frenzy of mine own</span>
									<br/>
									<span>From my remembrance clearly banish’d his.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>How does he, sirrah?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>Truly, madam, he holds Belzebub at the staves’s end as well as a man in his case may do: has here writ a letter to you; I should have given’t you to-day morning, but as a madman’s epistles are no gospels, so it skills not much when they are delivered.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>Open’t, and read it.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>Look then to be well edified when the fool delivers the madman. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Reads.</i> “By the Lord, madam,”⁠—</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>How now! art thou mad?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>No, madam, I do but read madness: an your ladyship will have it as it ought to be, you must allow Vox.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>Prithee, read i’ thy right wits.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>So I do, madonna; but to read his right wits is to read thus: therefore perpend, my princess, and give ear.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>Read it you, sirrah. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Fabian</b>.</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Fabian</td>
							<td>
								<p><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Reads.</i> “By the Lord, madam, you wrong me, and the world shall know it: though you have put me into darkness and given your drunken cousin rule over me, yet have I the benefit of my senses as well as your ladyship. I have your own letter that induced me to the semblance I put on; with the which I doubt not but to do myself much right, or you much shame. Think of me as you please. I leave my duty a little unthought of and speak out of my injury.</p>
								<p>THE MADLY-USED Malvolio.”</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>Did he write this?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>Ay, madam.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duke Orsino</td>
							<td>This savours not much of distraction.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>See him deliver’d, Fabian; bring him hither. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Fabian</b>.</i></span>
									<br/>
									<span>My lord so please you, these things further thought on,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To think me as well a sister as a wife,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>One day shall crown the alliance on’t, so please you,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Here at my house and at my proper cost.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duke Orsino</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Madam, I am most apt to embrace your offer. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</b>.</i></span>
									<br/>
									<span>Your master quits you; and for your service done him,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>So much against the mettle of your sex,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>So far beneath your soft and tender breeding,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And since you call’d me master for so long,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Here is my hand: you shall from this time be</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Your master’s mistress.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>A sister! you are she.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Re-enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Fabian</b>, with <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Malvolio</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duke Orsino</td>
							<td>Is this the madman?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Ay, my lord, this same.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>How now, Malvolio!</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Malvolio</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Madam, you have done me wrong,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Notorious wrong.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>Have I, Malvolio? no.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Malvolio</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Lady, you have. Pray you, peruse that letter.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>You must not now deny it is your hand:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Write from it, if you can, in hand or phrase;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Or say ’tis not your seal, nor your invention:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>You can say none of this: well, grant it then</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And tell me, in the modesty of honour,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Why you have given me such clear lights of favour,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Bade me come smiling and cross-garter’d to you,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To put on yellow stockings and to frown</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Upon Sir Toby and the lighter people;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And, acting this in an obedient hope,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Why have you suffer’d me to be imprison’d,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Kept in a dark house, visited by the priest,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And made the most notorious geck and gull</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That e’er invention play’d on? tell me why.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Alas, Malvolio, this is not my writing,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Though, I confess, much like the character</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But out of question ’tis Maria’s hand.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And now I do bethink me, it was she</span>
									<br/>
									<span>First told me thou wast mad; then camest in smiling,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And in such forms which here were presupposed</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Upon thee in the letter. Prithee, be content:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>This practise hath most shrewdly pass’d upon thee;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But when we know the grounds and authors of it,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thou shalt be both the plaintiff and the judge</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of thine own cause.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Fabian</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Good madam, hear me speak,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And let no quarrel nor no brawl to come</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Taint the condition of this present hour,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which I have wonder’d at. In hope it shall not,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Most freely I confess, myself and Toby</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Set this device against Malvolio here,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Upon some stubborn and uncourteous parts</span>
									<br/>
									<span>We had conceived against him: Maria writ</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The letter at Sir Toby’s great importance;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In recompense whereof he hath married her.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>How with a sportful malice it was follow’d,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>May rather pluck on laughter than revenge;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If that the injuries be justly weigh’d</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That have on both sides pass’d.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>Alas, poor fool, how have they baffled thee!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>Why, “some are born great, some achieve greatness, and some have greatness thrown upon them.” I was one, sir, in this interlude; one Sir Topas, sir; but that’s all one. “By the Lord, fool, I am not mad.” But do you remember? “Madam, why laugh you at such a barren rascal? an you smile not, he’s gagged:” and thus the whirligig of time brings in his revenges.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Malvolio</td>
							<td>I’ll be revenged on the whole pack of you. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit.</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>He hath been most notoriously abused.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duke Orsino</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Pursue him and entreat him to a peace:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>He hath not told us of the captain yet:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>When that is known and golden time convents,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A solemn combination shall be made</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of our dear souls. Meantime, sweet sister,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>We will not part from hence. Cesario, come;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For so you shall be, while you are a man;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But when in other habits you are seen,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Orsino’s mistress and his fancy’s queen. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt all, except <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</b>.</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Sings.</i>
									</span>
									<br/>
									<span>When that I was and a little tiny boy,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With hey, ho, the wind and the rain,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A foolish thing was but a toy,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For the rain it raineth every day.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But when I came to man’s estate,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With hey, ho, <abbr>etc.</abbr></span>
									<br/>
									<span>’Gainst knaves and thieves men shut their gate,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For the rain, <abbr>etc.</abbr></span>
									<br/>
									<span>But when I came, alas! to wive,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With hey, ho, <abbr>etc.</abbr></span>
									<br/>
									<span>By swaggering could I never thrive,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For the rain, <abbr>etc.</abbr></span>
									<br/>
									<span>But when I came unto my beds,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With hey, ho, <abbr>etc.</abbr></span>
									<br/>
									<span>With toss-pots still had drunken heads,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For the rain, <abbr>etc.</abbr></span>
									<br/>
									<span>A great while ago the world begun,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With hey, ho, <abbr>etc.</abbr></span>
									<br/>
									<span>But that’s all one, our play is done,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And we’ll strive to please you every day. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit.</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
