<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Act IV</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction z3998:drama">
		<section id="act-4" epub:type="chapter z3998:scene">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Act</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</span>
			</h2>
			<section id="scene-1-1" epub:type="z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</span>
				</h3>
				<p>Before <b epub:type="z3998:persona">OLIVIA's</b> house.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">SEBASTIAN</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>Will you make me believe that I am not sent for you?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">SEBASTIAN</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Go to, go to, thou art a foolish fellow:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Let me be clear of thee.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>Well held out, i' faith! No, I do not know you; nor I am not sent to you by my lady, to bid you come speak with her; nor your name is not Master Cesario; nor this is not my nose neither. Nothing that is so is so.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">SEBASTIAN</td>
							<td>I prithee, vent thy folly somewhere else: Thou know'st not me.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>Vent my folly! he has heard that word of some great man and now applies it to a fool. Vent my folly! I am afraid this great lubber, the world, will prove a cockney. I prithee now, ungird thy strangeness and tell me what I shall vent to my lady: shall I vent to her that thou art coming?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">SEBASTIAN</td>
							<td>I prithee, foolish Greek, depart from me: There's money for thee: if you tarry longer, I shall give worse payment.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>By my troth, thou hast an open hand. These wise men that give fools money get themselves a good report--after fourteen years' purchase.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">SIR ANDREW</b>, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">SIR TOBY BELCH</b>, and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">FABIAN</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">SIR ANDREW</td>
							<td>Now, sir, have I met you again? there's for you.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">SEBASTIAN</td>
							<td>Why, there's for thee, and there, and there. Are all the people mad?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">SIR TOBY BELCH</td>
							<td>Hold, sir, or I'll throw your dagger o'er the house.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>This will I tell my lady straight: I would not be in some of your coats for two pence. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit.</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">SIR TOBY BELCH</td>
							<td>Come on, sir; hold.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">SIR ANDREW</td>
							<td>Nay, let him alone: I'll go another way to work with him; I'll have an action of battery against him, if there be any law in Illyria: though I struck him first, yet it's no matter for that.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">SEBASTIAN</td>
							<td>Let go thy hand.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">SIR TOBY BELCH</td>
							<td>Come, sir, I will not let you go. Come, my young soldier, put up your iron: you are well fleshed; come on.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">SEBASTIAN</td>
							<td>I will be free from thee. What wouldst thou now? If thou darest tempt me further, draw thy sword.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">SIR TOBY BELCH</td>
							<td>What, what? Nay, then I must have an ounce or two of this malapert blood from you.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">OLIVIA</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">OLIVIA</td>
							<td>Hold, Toby; on thy life I charge thee, hold!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">SIR TOBY BELCH</td>
							<td>Madam!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">OLIVIA</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Will it be ever thus? Ungracious wretch,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Fit for the mountains and the barbarous caves,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Where manners ne'er were preach'd! out of my sight!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Be not offended, dear Cesario.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Rudesby, be gone! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt <b epub:type="z3998:persona">SIR TOBY BELCH</b>, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">SIR ANDREW</b>, and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">FABIAN</b>.</i></span>
									<br/>
									<span>I prithee, gentle friend,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Let thy fair wisdom, not thy passion, sway</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In this uncivil and thou unjust extent</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Against thy peace. Go with me to my house,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And hear thou there how many fruitless pranks</span>
									<br/>
									<span>This ruffian hath botch'd up, that thou thereby</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Mayst smile at this: thou shalt not choose but go:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Do not deny. Beshrew his soul for me,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>He started one poor heart of mine in thee.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">SEBASTIAN</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>What relish is in this? how runs the stream?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Or I am mad, or else this is a dream:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Let fancy still my sense in Lethe steep;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If it be thus to dream, still let me sleep!</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">OLIVIA</td>
							<td>Nay, come, I prithee; would thou'ldst be ruled by me!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">SEBASTIAN</td>
							<td>Madam, I will.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">OLIVIA</td>
							<td>O, say so, and so be! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt.</i></td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
			<section id="scene-1-1" epub:type="z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</span>
				</h3>
				<p><b epub:type="z3998:persona">OLIVIA's</b> house.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">MARIA</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">MARIA</td>
							<td>Nay, I prithee, put on this gown and this beard; make him believe thou art Sir Topas the curate: do it quickly; I'll call Sir Toby the whilst. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit.</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>Well, I'll put it on, and I will dissemble myself in't; and I would I were the first that ever dissembled in such a gown. I am not tall enough to become the function well, nor lean enough to be thought a good student; but to be said an honest man and a good housekeeper goes as fairly as to say a careful man and a great scholar. The competitors enter.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">SIR TOBY BELCH</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">MARIA</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">SIR TOBY BELCH</td>
							<td>Jove bless thee, master Parson.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>Bonos dies, Sir Toby: for, as the old hermit of Prague, that never saw pen and ink, very wittily said to a niece of King Gorboduc, 'That that is is;' so I, being Master Parson, am Master Parson; for, what is 'that' but 'that,' and 'is' but 'is'?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">SIR TOBY BELCH</td>
							<td>To him, Sir Topas.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>What, ho, I say! peace in this prison!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">SIR TOBY BELCH</td>
							<td>The knave counterfeits well; a good knave.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">MALVOLIO</td>
							<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Within.</i> Who calls there?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>Sir Topas the curate, who comes to visit Malvolio the lunatic.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">MALVOLIO</td>
							<td>Sir Topas, Sir Topas, good Sir Topas, go to my lady.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>Out, hyperbolical fiend! how vexest thou this man! talkest thou nothing but of ladies?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">SIR TOBY BELCH</td>
							<td>Well said, Master Parson.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">MALVOLIO</td>
							<td>Sir Topas, never was man thus wronged: good Sir Topas, do not think I am mad: they have laid me here in hideous darkness.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>Fie, thou dishonest Satan! I call thee by the most modest terms; for I am one of those gentle ones that will use the devil himself with courtesy: sayest thou that house is dark?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">MALVOLIO</td>
							<td>As hell, Sir Topas.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>Why it hath bay windows transparent as barricadoes, and the clearstores toward the south north are as lustrous as ebony; and yet complainest thou of obstruction?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">MALVOLIO</td>
							<td>I am not mad, Sir Topas: I say to you, this house is dark.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>Madman, thou errest: I say, there is no darkness but ignorance; in which thou art more puzzled than the Egyptians in their fog.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">MALVOLIO</td>
							<td>I say, this house is as dark as ignorance, though ignorance were as dark as hell; and I say, there was never man thus abused. I am no more mad than you are: make the trial of it in any constant question.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>What is the opinion of Pythagoras concerning wild fowl?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">MALVOLIO</td>
							<td>That the soul of our grandam might haply inhabit a bird.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>What thinkest thou of his opinion?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">MALVOLIO</td>
							<td>I think nobly of the soul, and no way approve his opinion.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>Fare thee well. Remain thou still in darkness: thou shalt hold the opinion of Pythagoras ere I will allow of thy wits, and fear to kill a woodcock, lest thou dispossess the soul of thy grandam. Fare thee well.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">MALVOLIO</td>
							<td>Sir Topas, Sir Topas!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">SIR TOBY BELCH</td>
							<td>My most exquisite Sir Topas!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>Nay, I am for all waters.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">MARIA</td>
							<td>Thou mightst have done this without thy beard and gown: he sees thee not.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">SIR TOBY BELCH</td>
							<td>To him in thine own voice, and bring me word how thou findest him: I would we were well rid of this knavery. If he may be conveniently delivered, I would he were, for I am now so far in offence with my niece that I cannot pursue with any safety this sport to the upshot. Come by and by to my chamber. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt <b epub:type="z3998:persona">SIR TOBY BELCH</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">MARIA</b>.</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Singing.</i></span>
									<br/>
									<span>'Hey, Robin, jolly Robin,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Tell me how thy lady does.'</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">MALVOLIO</td>
							<td>Fool!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>'My lady is unkind, perdy.'</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">MALVOLIO</td>
							<td>Fool!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>'Alas, why is she so?'</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">MALVOLIO</td>
							<td>Fool, I say!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>'She loves another'--Who calls, ha?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">MALVOLIO</td>
							<td>Good fool, as ever thou wilt deserve well at my hand, help me to a candle, and pen, ink and paper: as I am a gentleman, I will live to be thankful to thee for't.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>Master Malvolio?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">MALVOLIO</td>
							<td>Ay, good fool.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>Alas, sir, how fell you besides your five wits?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">MALVOLIO</td>
							<td>Fool, there was never a man so notoriously abused: I am as well in my wits, fool, as thou art.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>But as well? then you are mad indeed, if you be no better in your wits than a fool.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">MALVOLIO</td>
							<td>They have here propertied me; keep me in darkness, send ministers to me, asses, and do all they can to face me out of my wits.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>Advise you what you say; the minister is here. Malvolio, Malvolio, thy wits the heavens restore! endeavour thyself to sleep, and leave thy vain bibble babble.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">MALVOLIO</td>
							<td>Sir Topas!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>Maintain no words with him, good fellow. Who, I, sir? not I, sir. God be wi' you, good Sir Topas. Merry, amen. I will, sir, I will.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">MALVOLIO</td>
							<td>Fool, fool, fool, I say!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>Alas, sir, be patient. What say you sir? I am shent for speaking to you.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">MALVOLIO</td>
							<td>Good fool, help me to some light and some paper: I tell thee, I am as well in my wits as any man in Illyria.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>Well-a-day that you were, sir</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">MALVOLIO</td>
							<td>By this hand, I am. Good fool, some ink, paper and light; and convey what I will set down to my lady: it shall advantage thee more than ever the bearing of letter did.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>I will help you to't. But tell me true, are you not mad indeed? or do you but counterfeit?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">MALVOLIO</td>
							<td>Believe me, I am not; I tell thee true.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>Nay, I'll ne'er believe a madman till I see his brains. I will fetch you light and paper and ink.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">MALVOLIO</td>
							<td>Fool, I'll requite it in the highest degree: I prithee, be gone.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Singing.</i></span>
									<br/>
									<span>I am gone, sir,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And anon, sir,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I'll be with you again,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In a trice,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Like to the old Vice,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Your need to sustain;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Who, with dagger of lath,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In his rage and his wrath,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Cries, ah, ha! to the devil:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Like a mad lad,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Pare thy nails, dad;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Adieu, good man devil. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit.</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
			<section id="scene-1-1" epub:type="z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</span>
				</h3>
				<p><b epub:type="z3998:persona">OLIVIA's</b> garden.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">SEBASTIAN</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">SEBASTIAN</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>This is the air; that is the glorious sun;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>This pearl she gave me, I do feel't and see't;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And though 'tis wonder that enwraps me thus,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Yet 'tis not madness. Where's Antonio, then?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I could not find him at the Elephant:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Yet there he was; and there I found this credit,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That he did range the town to seek me out.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>His counsel now might do me golden service;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For though my soul disputes well with my sense,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That this may be some error, but no madness,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Yet doth this accident and flood of fortune</span>
									<br/>
									<span>So far exceed all instance, all discourse,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That I am ready to distrust mine eyes</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And wrangle with my reason that persuades me</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To any other trust but that I am mad</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Or else the lady's mad; yet, if 'twere so,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>She could not sway her house, command her followers,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Take and give back affairs and their dispatch</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With such a smooth, discreet and stable bearing</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As I perceive she does: there's something in't</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That is deceiveable. But here the lady comes.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">OLIVIA</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Priest</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">OLIVIA</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Blame not this haste of mine. If you mean well,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Now go with me and with this holy man</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Into the chantry by: there, before him,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And underneath that consecrated roof,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Plight me the full assurance of your faith;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That my most jealous and too doubtful soul</span>
									<br/>
									<span>May live at peace. He shall conceal it</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Whiles you are willing it shall come to note,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>What time we will our celebration keep</span>
									<br/>
									<span>According to my birth. What do you say?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">SEBASTIAN</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I'll follow this good man, and go with you;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And, having sworn truth, ever will be true.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">OLIVIA</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Then lead the way, good father; and heavens so shine,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That they may fairly note this act of mine! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt.</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
