<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Act I</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction z3998:drama">
		<section id="act-1" epub:type="chapter z3998:scene">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Act</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</span>
			</h2>
			<section id="scene-1-1" epub:type="z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</span>
				</h3>
				<p><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Duke Orsino’s</b> palace.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Duke Orsino</b>, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Curio</b>, and other Lords; Musicians attending.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duke Orsino</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>If music be the food of love, play on;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Give me excess of it, that, surfeiting,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The appetite may sicken, and so die.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That strain again! it had a dying fall:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>O, it came o’er my ear like the sweet sound,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That breathes upon a bank of violets,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Stealing and giving odour! Enough; no more:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>’Tis not so sweet now as it was before.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>O spirit of love! how quick and fresh art thou,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That, notwithstanding thy capacity</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Receiveth as the sea, nought enters there,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of what validity and pitch soe’er,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But falls into abatement and low price,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Even in a minute: so full of shapes is fancy</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That it alone is high fantastical.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Curio</td>
							<td>Will you go hunt, my lord?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duke Orsino</td>
							<td>What, Curio?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Curio</td>
							<td>The hart.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duke Orsino</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Why, so I do, the noblest that I have:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>O, when mine eyes did see Olivia first,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Methought she purged the air of pestilence!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That instant was I turn’d into a hart;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And my desires, like fell and cruel hounds,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>E’er since pursue me.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Valentine</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>How now! what news from her?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Valentine</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>So please my lord, I might not be admitted;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But from her handmaid do return this answer:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The element itself, till seven years’ heat,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Shall not behold her face at ample view;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But, like a cloistress, she will veiled walk</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And water once a day her chamber round</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With eye-offending brine: all this to season</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A brother’s dead love, which she would keep fresh</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And lasting in her sad remembrance.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duke Orsino</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>O, she that hath a heart of that fine frame</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To pay this debt of love but to a brother,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>How will she love, when the rich golden shaft</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Hath kill’d the flock of all affections else</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That live in her; when liver, brain and heart,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>These sovereign thrones, are all supplied, and fill’d</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Her sweet perfections with one self king!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Away before me to sweet beds of flowers:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Love-thoughts lie rich when canopied with bowers. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt.</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
			<section id="scene-1-2" epub:type="z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</span>
				</h3>
				<p>The sea-coast.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</b>, a <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Captain</b>, and Sailors.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td>What country, friends, is this?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Captain</td>
							<td>This is Illyria, lady.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>And what should I do in Illyria?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>My brother he is in Elysium.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Perchance he is not drown’d: what think you, sailors?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Captain</td>
							<td>It is perchance that you yourself were saved.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td>O my poor brother! and so perchance may he be.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Captain</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>True, madam: and, to comfort you with chance,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Assure yourself, after our ship did split,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>When you and those poor number saved with you</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Hung on our driving boat, I saw your brother,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Most provident in peril, bind himself,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Courage and hope both teaching him the practise,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To a strong mast that lived upon the sea;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Where, like Arion on the dolphin’s back,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I saw him hold acquaintance with the waves</span>
									<br/>
									<span>So long as I could see.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>For saying so, there’s gold:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Mine own escape unfoldeth to my hope,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Whereto thy speech serves for authority,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The like of him. Know’st thou this country?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Captain</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Ay, madam, well; for I was bred and born</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Not three hours’ travel from this very place.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td>Who governs here?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Captain</td>
							<td>A noble duke, in nature as in name.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td>What is the name?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Captain</td>
							<td>Orsino.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Orsino! I have heard my father name him:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>He was a bachelor then.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Captain</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>And so is now, or was so very late;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For but a month ago I went from hence,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And then ’twas fresh in murmur⁠—as, you know,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>What great ones do the less will prattle of⁠—</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That he did seek the love of fair Olivia.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td>What’s she?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Captain</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>A virtuous maid, the daughter of a count</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That died some twelvemonth since, then leaving her</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In the protection of his son, her brother,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Who shortly also died: for whose dear love,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>They say, she hath abjured the company</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And sight of men.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>O that I served that lady</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And might not be delivered to the world,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Till I had made mine own occasion mellow,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>What my estate is!</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Captain</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>That were hard to compass;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Because she will admit no kind of suit,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>No, not the duke’s.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>There is a fair behavior in thee, captain;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And though that nature with a beauteous wall</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Doth oft close in pollution, yet of thee</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I will believe thou hast a mind that suits</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With this thy fair and outward character.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I prithee, and I’ll pay thee bounteously,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Conceal me what I am, and be my aid</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For such disguise as haply shall become</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The form of my intent. I’ll serve this duke:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thou shall present me as an eunuch to him:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>It may be worth thy pains; for I can sing</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And speak to him in many sorts of music</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That will allow me very worth his service.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>What else may hap to time I will commit;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Only shape thou thy silence to my wit.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Captain</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Be you his eunuch, and your mute I’ll be:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>When my tongue blabs, then let mine eyes not see.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td>I thank thee: lead me on. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt.</i></td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
			<section id="scene-1-3" epub:type="z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</span>
				</h3>
				<p><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia’s</b> house.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Toby Belch</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Maria</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Toby Belch</td>
							<td>What a plague means my niece, to take the death of her brother thus? I am sure care’s an enemy to life.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Maria</td>
							<td>By my troth, Sir Toby, you must come in earlier o’ nights: your cousin, my lady, takes great exceptions to your ill hours.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Toby Belch</td>
							<td>Why, let her except, before excepted.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Maria</td>
							<td>Ay, but you must confine yourself within the modest limits of order.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Toby Belch</td>
							<td>Confine! I’ll confine myself no finer than I am: these clothes are good enough to drink in; and so be these boots too: an they be not, let them hang themselves in their own straps.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Maria</td>
							<td>That quaffing and drinking will undo you: I heard my lady talk of it yesterday; and of a foolish knight that you brought in one night here to be her wooer.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Toby Belch</td>
							<td>Who, Sir Andrew Aguecheek?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Maria</td>
							<td>Ay, he.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Toby Belch</td>
							<td>He’s as tall a man as any’s in Illyria.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Maria</td>
							<td>What’s that to the purpose?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Toby Belch</td>
							<td>Why, he has three thousand ducats a year.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Maria</td>
							<td>Ay, but he’ll have but a year in all these ducats: he’s a very fool and a prodigal.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Toby Belch</td>
							<td>Fie, that you’ll say so! he plays o’ the viol-de-gamboys, and speaks three or four languages word for word without book, and hath all the good gifts of nature.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Maria</td>
							<td>He hath indeed, almost natural: for besides that he’s a fool, he’s a great quarreller: and but that he hath the gift of a coward to allay the gust he hath in quarrelling, ’tis thought among the prudent he would quickly have the gift of a grave.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Toby Belch</td>
							<td>By this hand, they are scoundrels and subtractors that say so of him. Who are they?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Maria</td>
							<td>They that add, moreover, he’s drunk nightly in your company.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Toby Belch</td>
							<td>With drinking healths to my niece: I’ll drink to her as long as there is a passage in my throat and drink in Illyria: he’s a coward and a coystrill that will not drink to my niece till his brains turn o’ the toe like a parish-top. What, wench! Castiliano vulgo! for here comes Sir Andrew Agueface.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Andrew</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Andrew</td>
							<td>Sir Toby Belch! how now, Sir Toby Belch!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Toby Belch</td>
							<td>Sweet Sir Andrew!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Andrew</td>
							<td>Bless you, fair shrew.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Maria</td>
							<td>And you too, sir.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Toby Belch</td>
							<td>Accost, Sir Andrew, accost.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Andrew</td>
							<td>What’s that?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Toby Belch</td>
							<td>My niece’s chambermaid.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Andrew</td>
							<td>Good Mistress Accost, I desire better acquaintance.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Maria</td>
							<td>My name is Mary, sir.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Andrew</td>
							<td>Good Mistress Mary Accost⁠—</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Toby Belch</td>
							<td>You mistake, knight; “accost” is front her, board her, woo her, assail her.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Andrew</td>
							<td>By my troth, I would not undertake her in this company. Is that the meaning of “accost”?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Maria</td>
							<td>Fare you well, gentlemen.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Toby Belch</td>
							<td>An thou let part so, Sir Andrew, would thou mightst never draw sword again.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Andrew</td>
							<td>An you part so, mistress, I would I might never draw sword again. Fair lady, do you think you have fools in hand?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Maria</td>
							<td>Sir, I have not you by the hand.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Andrew</td>
							<td>Marry, but you shall have; and here’s my hand.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Maria</td>
							<td>Now, sir, “thought is free:” I pray you, bring your hand to the buttery-bar and let it drink.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Andrew</td>
							<td>Wherefore, sweet-heart? what’s your metaphor?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Maria</td>
							<td>It’s dry, sir.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Andrew</td>
							<td>Why, I think so: I am not such an ass but I can keep my hand dry. But what’s your jest?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Maria</td>
							<td>A dry jest, sir.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Andrew</td>
							<td>Are you full of them?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Maria</td>
							<td>Ay, sir, I have them at my fingers’ ends: marry, now I let go your hand, I am barren. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit.</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Toby Belch</td>
							<td>O knight thou lackest a cup of canary: when did I see thee so put down?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Andrew</td>
							<td>Never in your life, I think; unless you see canary put me down. Methinks sometimes I have no more wit than a Christian or an ordinary man has: but I am a great eater of beef and I believe that does harm to my wit.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Toby Belch</td>
							<td>No question.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Andrew</td>
							<td>An I thought that, I’ld forswear it. I’ll ride home to-morrow, Sir Toby.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Toby Belch</td>
							<td>Pourquoi, my dear knight?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Andrew</td>
							<td>What is “Pourquoi”? do or not do? I would I had bestowed that time in the tongues that I have in fencing, dancing and bear-baiting: O, had I but followed the arts!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Toby Belch</td>
							<td>Then hadst thou had an excellent head of hair.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Andrew</td>
							<td>Why, would that have mended my hair?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Toby Belch</td>
							<td>Past question; for thou seest it will not curl by nature.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Andrew</td>
							<td>But it becomes me well enough, does’t not?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Toby Belch</td>
							<td>Excellent; it hangs like flax on a distaff; and I hope to see a housewife take thee between her legs and spin it off.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Andrew</td>
							<td>Faith, I’ll home to-morrow, Sir Toby: your niece will not be seen; or if she be, it’s four to one she’ll none of me: the count himself here hard by woos her.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Toby Belch</td>
							<td>She’ll none o’ the count: she’ll not match above her degree, neither in estate, years, nor wit; I have heard her swear’t. Tut, there’s life in’t, man.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Andrew</td>
							<td>I’ll stay a month longer. I am a fellow o’ the strangest mind i’ the world; I delight in masques and revels sometimes altogether.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Toby Belch</td>
							<td>Art thou good at these kickshawses, knight?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Andrew</td>
							<td>As any man in Illyria, whatsoever he be, under the degree of my betters; and yet I will not compare with an old man.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Toby Belch</td>
							<td>What is thy excellence in a galliard, knight?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Andrew</td>
							<td>Faith, I can cut a caper.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Toby Belch</td>
							<td>And I can cut the mutton to’t.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Andrew</td>
							<td>And I think I have the back-trick simply as strong as any man in Illyria.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Toby Belch</td>
							<td>Wherefore are these things hid? wherefore have these gifts a curtain before ’em? are they like to take dust, like Mistress Mall’s picture? why dost thou not go to church in a galliard and come home in a coranto? My very walk should be a jig; I would not so much as make water but in a sink-a-pace. What dost thou mean? Is it a world to hide virtues in? I did think, by the excellent constitution of thy leg, it was formed under the star of a galliard.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Andrew</td>
							<td>Ay, ’tis strong, and it does indifferent well in a flame-coloured stock. Shall we set about some revels?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Toby Belch</td>
							<td>What shall we do else? were we not born under Taurus?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Andrew</td>
							<td>Taurus! That’s sides and heart.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Toby Belch</td>
							<td>No, sir; it is legs and thighs. Let me see the caper; ha! higher: ha, ha! excellent! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt.</i></td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
			<section id="scene-1-4" epub:type="z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</span>
				</h3>
				<p><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Duke Orsino’s</b> palace.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Valentine</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</b> in man’s attire.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Valentine</td>
							<td>If the duke continue these favours towards you, Cesario, you are like to be much advanced: he hath known you but three days, and already you are no stranger.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td>You either fear his humour or my negligence, that you call in question the continuance of his love: is he inconstant, sir, in his favours?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Valentine</td>
							<td>No, believe me.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td>I thank you. Here comes the count.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Duke Orsino</b>, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Curio</b>, and Attendants.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duke Orsino</td>
							<td>Who saw Cesario, ho?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td>On your attendance, my lord; here.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duke Orsino</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Stand you a while aloof, Cesario,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thou know’st no less but all; I have unclasp’d</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To thee the book even of my secret soul:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Therefore, good youth, address thy gait unto her;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Be not denied access, stand at her doors,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And tell them, there thy fixed foot shall grow</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Till thou have audience.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Sure, my noble lord,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If she be so abandon’d to her sorrow</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As it is spoke, she never will admit me.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duke Orsino</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Be clamorous and leap all civil bounds</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Rather than make unprofited return.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td>Say I do speak with her, my lord, what then?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duke Orsino</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>O, then unfold the passion of my love,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Surprise her with discourse of my dear faith:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>It shall become thee well to act my woes;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>She will attend it better in thy youth</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Than in a nuncio’s of more grave aspect.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td>I think not so, my lord.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Duke Orsino</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Dear lad, believe it;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For they shall yet belie thy happy years,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That say thou art a man: Diana’s lip</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Is not more smooth and rubious; thy small pipe</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Is as the maiden’s organ, shrill and sound,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And all is semblative a woman’s part.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I know thy constellation is right apt</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For this affair. Some four or five attend him;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>All, if you will; for I myself am best</span>
									<br/>
									<span>When least in company. Prosper well in this,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And thou shalt live as freely as thy lord,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To call his fortunes thine.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I’ll do my best</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To woo your lady: <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside.</i> yet, a barful strife!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Whoe’er I woo, myself would be his wife. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt.</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
			<section id="scene-1-5" epub:type="z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</span>
				</h3>
				<p><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia’s</b> house.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Maria</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Maria</td>
							<td>Nay, either tell me where thou hast been, or I will not open my lips so wide as a bristle may enter in way of thy excuse: my lady will hang thee for thy absence.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>Let her hang me: he that is well hanged in this world needs to fear no colours.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Maria</td>
							<td>Make that good.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>He shall see none to fear.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Maria</td>
							<td>A good lenten answer: I can tell thee where that saying was born, of “I fear no colours.”</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>Where, good Mistress Mary?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Maria</td>
							<td>In the wars; and that may you be bold to say in your foolery.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>Well, God give them wisdom that have it; and those that are fools, let them use their talents.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Maria</td>
							<td>Yet you will be hanged for being so long absent; or, to be turned away, is not that as good as a hanging to you?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>Many a good hanging prevents a bad marriage; and, for turning away, let summer bear it out.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Maria</td>
							<td>You are resolute, then?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>Not so, neither; but I am resolved on two points.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Maria</td>
							<td>That if one break, the other will hold; or, if both break, your gaskins fall.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>Apt, in good faith; very apt. Well, go thy way; if Sir Toby would leave drinking, thou wert as witty a piece of Eve’s flesh as any in Illyria.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Maria</td>
							<td>Peace, you rogue, no more o’ that. Here comes my lady: make your excuse wisely, you were best. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit.</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>Wit, an’t be thy will, put me into good fooling! Those wits, that think they have thee, do very oft prove fools; and I, that am sure I lack thee, may pass for a wise man: for what says Quinapalus? “Better a witty fool, than a foolish wit.”</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</b> with <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Malvolio</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>God bless thee, lady!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>Take the fool away.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>Do you not hear, fellows? Take away the lady.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>Go to, you’re a dry fool; I’ll no more of you: besides, you grow dishonest.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>Two faults, madonna, that drink and good counsel will amend: for give the dry fool drink, then is the fool not dry: bid the dishonest man mend himself; if he mend, he is no longer dishonest; if he cannot, let the botcher mend him. Any thing that’s mended is but patched: virtue that transgresses is but patched with sin; and sin that amends is but patched with virtue. If that this simple syllogism will serve, so; if it will not, what remedy? As there is no true cuckold but calamity, so beauty’s a flower. The lady bade take away the fool; therefore, I say again, take her away.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>Sir, I bade them take away you.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>Misprision in the highest degree! Lady, cucullus non facit monachum; that’s as much to say as I wear not motley in my brain. Good madonna, give me leave to prove you a fool.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>Can you do it?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>Dexterously, good madonna.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>Make your proof.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>I must catechise you for it, madonna: good my mouse of virtue, answer me.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>Well, sir, for want of other idleness, I’ll bide your proof.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>Good madonna, why mournest thou?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>Good fool, for my brother’s death.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>I think his soul is in hell, madonna.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>I know his soul is in heaven, fool.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>The more fool, madonna, to mourn for your brother’s soul being in heaven. Take away the fool, gentlemen.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>What think you of this fool, Malvolio? doth he not mend?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Malvolio</td>
							<td>Yes, and shall do till the pangs of death shake him: infirmity, that decays the wise, doth ever make the better fool.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>God send you, sir, a speedy infirmity, for the better increasing your folly! Sir Toby will be sworn that I am no fox; but he will not pass his word for two pence that you are no fool.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>How say you to that, Malvolio?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Malvolio</td>
							<td>I marvel your ladyship takes delight in such a barren rascal: I saw him put down the other day with an ordinary fool that has no more brain than a stone. Look you now, he’s out of his guard already; unless you laugh and minister occasion to him, he is gagged. I protest, I take these wise men, that crow so at these set kind of fools, no better than the fools’ zanies.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>Oh, you are sick of self-love, Malvolio, and taste with a distempered appetite. To be generous, guiltless and of free disposition, is to take those things for bird-bolts that you deem cannon-bullets: there is no slander in an allowed fool, though he do nothing but rail; nor no railing in a known discreet man, though he do nothing but reprove.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>Now Mercury endue thee with leasing, for thou speakest well of fools!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Re-enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Maria</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Maria</td>
							<td>Madam, there is at the gate a young gentleman much desires to speak with you.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>From the Count Orsino, is it?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Maria</td>
							<td>I know not, madam: ’tis a fair young man, and well attended.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>Who of my people hold him in delay?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Maria</td>
							<td>Sir Toby, madam, your kinsman.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>Fetch him off, I pray you; he speaks nothing but madman: fie on him! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Maria</b>.</i> Go you, Malvolio: if it be a suit from the count, I am sick, or not at home; what you will, to dismiss it. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Malvolio</b>.</i> Now you see, sir, how your fooling grows old, and people dislike it.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>Thou hast spoke for us, madonna, as if thy eldest son should be a fool; whose skull Jove cram with brains! for⁠—here he comes⁠—one of thy kin has a most weak pia mater.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Toby Belch</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>By mine honour, half drunk. What is he at the gate, cousin?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Toby Belch</td>
							<td>A gentleman.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>A gentleman! what gentleman?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Toby Belch</td>
							<td>’Tis a gentle man here⁠—a plague o’ these pickle-herring! How now, sot!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>Good Sir Toby!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>Cousin, cousin, how have you come so early by this lethargy?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Toby Belch</td>
							<td>Lechery! I defy lechery. There’s one at the gate.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>Ay, marry, what is he?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sir Toby Belch</td>
							<td>Let him be the devil, an he will, I care not: give me faith, say I. Well, it’s all one. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit.</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>What’s a drunken man like, fool?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>Like a drowned man, a fool and a mad man: one draught above heat makes him a fool; the second mads him; and a third drowns him.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>Go thou and seek the crowner, and let him sit o’ my coz; for he’s in the third degree of drink, he’s drowned: go, look after him.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Clown</td>
							<td>He is but mad yet, madonna; and the fool shall look to the madman. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit.</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Re-enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Malvolio</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Malvolio</td>
							<td>Madam, yond young fellow swears he will speak with you. I told him you were sick; he takes on him to understand so much, and therefore comes to speak with you. I told him you were asleep; he seems to have a foreknowledge of that too, and therefore comes to speak with you. What is to be said to him, lady? he’s fortified against any denial.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>Tell him he shall not speak with me.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Malvolio</td>
							<td>Has been told so; and he says, he’ll stand at your door like a sheriff’s post, and be the supporter to a bench, but he’ll speak with you.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>What kind o’ man is he?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Malvolio</td>
							<td>Why, of mankind.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>What manner of man?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Malvolio</td>
							<td>Of very ill manner; he’ll speak with you, will you or no.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>Of what personage and years is he?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Malvolio</td>
							<td>Not yet old enough for a man, nor young enough for a boy; as a squash is before ’tis a peascod, or a cooling when ’tis almost an apple: ’tis with him in standing water, between boy and man. He is very well-favoured and he speaks very shrewishly; one would think his mother’s milk were scarce out of him.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>Let him approach: call in my gentlewoman.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Malvolio</td>
							<td>Gentlewoman, my lady calls. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit.</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Re-enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Maria</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Give me my veil: come, throw it o’er my face.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>We’ll once more hear Orsino’s embassy.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</b>, and Attendants.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td>The honourable lady of the house, which is she?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Speak to me; I shall answer for her.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Your will?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td>Most radiant, exquisite and unmatchable beauty⁠—I pray you, tell me if this be the lady of the house, for I never saw her: I would be loath to cast away my speech, for besides that it is excellently well penned, I have taken great pains to con it. Good beauties, let me sustain no scorn; I am very comptible, even to the least sinister usage.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>Whence came you, sir?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td>I can say little more than I have studied, and that question’s out of my part. Good gentle one, give me modest assurance if you be the lady of the house, that I may proceed in my speech.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>Are you a comedian?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td>No, my profound heart: and yet, by the very fangs of malice I swear, I am not that I play. Are you the lady of the house?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>If I do not usurp myself, I am.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td>Most certain, if you are she, you do usurp yourself; for what is yours to bestow is not yours to reserve. But this is from my commission: I will on with my speech in your praise, and then show you the heart of my message.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>Come to what is important in’t: I forgive you the praise.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td>Alas, I took great pains to study it, and ’tis poetical.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>It is the more like to be feigned: I pray you, keep it in. I heard you were saucy at my gates, and allowed your approach rather to wonder at you than to hear you. If you be not mad, be gone; if you have reason, be brief: ’tis not that time of moon with me to make one in so skipping a dialogue.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Maria</td>
							<td>Will you hoist sail, sir? here lies your way.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td>No, good swabber; I am to hull here a little longer. Some mollification for your giant, sweet lady. Tell me your mind: I am a messenger.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>Sure, you have some hideous matter to deliver, when the courtesy of it is so fearful. Speak your office.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td>It alone concerns your ear. I bring no overture of war, no taxation of homage: I hold the olive in my hand; my words are as fun of peace as matter.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>Yet you began rudely. What are you? what would you?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td>The rudeness that hath appeared in me have I learned from my entertainment. What I am, and what I would, are as secret as maidenhead; to your ears, divinity, to any other’s, profanation.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>Give us the place alone: we will hear this divinity. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Maria</b> and Attendants.</i> Now, sir, what is your text?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td>Most sweet lady⁠—</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>A comfortable doctrine, and much may be said of it.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Where lies your text?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td>In Orsino’s bosom.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>In his bosom! In what chapter of his bosom?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td>To answer by the method, in the first of his heart.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>O, I have read it: it is heresy. Have you no more to say?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td>Good madam, let me see your face.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>Have you any commission from your lord to negotiate with my face? You are now out of your text: but we will draw the curtain and show you the picture. Look you, sir, such a one I was this present: is’t not well done? <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Unveiling.</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td>Excellently done, if God did all.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>’Tis in grain, sir; ’twill endure wind and weather.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>’Tis beauty truly blent, whose red and white</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Nature’s own sweet and cunning hand laid on:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Lady, you are the cruell’st she alive,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If you will lead these graces to the grave</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And leave the world no copy.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>O, sir, I will not be so hard-hearted; I will give</span>
									<br/>
									<span>out divers schedules of my beauty: it shall be</span>
									<br/>
									<span>inventoried, and every particle and utensil</span>
									<br/>
									<span>labelled to my will: as, item, two lips,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>indifferent red; item, two grey eyes, with lids to</span>
									<br/>
									<span>them; item, one neck, one chin, and so forth. Were</span>
									<br/>
									<span>you sent hither to praise me?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I see you what you are, you are too proud;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But, if you were the devil, you are fair.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>My lord and master loves you: O, such love</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Could be but recompensed, though you were crown’d</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The nonpareil of beauty!</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>How does he love me?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>With adorations, fertile tears,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With groans that thunder love, with sighs of fire.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Your lord does know my mind; I cannot love him:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Yet I suppose him virtuous, know him noble,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of great estate, of fresh and stainless youth;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In voices well divulged, free, learn’d and valiant;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And in dimension and the shape of nature</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A gracious person: but yet I cannot love him;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>He might have took his answer long ago.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>If I did love you in my master’s flame,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With such a suffering, such a deadly life,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In your denial I would find no sense;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I would not understand it.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td>Why, what would you?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Make me a willow cabin at your gate,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And call upon my soul within the house;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Write loyal cantons of contemned love</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And sing them loud even in the dead of night;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Halloo your name to the reverberate hills</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And make the babbling gossip of the air</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Cry out “Olivia!” O, You should not rest</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Between the elements of air and earth,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But you should pity me!</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>You might do much.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>What is your parentage?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Above my fortunes, yet my state is well:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I am a gentleman.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Get you to your lord;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I cannot love him: let him send no more;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Unless, perchance, you come to me again,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To tell me how he takes it. Fare you well:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I thank you for your pains: spend this for me.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Viola</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I am no fee’d post, lady; keep your purse:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>My master, not myself, lacks recompense.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Love make his heart of flint that you shall love;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And let your fervor, like my master’s, be</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Placed in contempt! Farewell, fair cruelty. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit.</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>“What is your parentage?”</span>
									<br/>
									<span>“Above my fortunes, yet my state is well:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I am a gentleman.” I’ll be sworn thou art;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thy tongue, thy face, thy limbs, actions and spirit,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Do give thee five-fold blazon: not too fast:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>soft, soft!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Unless the master were the man. How now!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Even so quickly may one catch the plague?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Methinks I feel this youth’s perfections</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With an invisible and subtle stealth</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To creep in at mine eyes. Well, let it be.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>What ho, Malvolio!</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Re-enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Malvolio</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Malvolio</td>
							<td>Here, madam, at your service.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Run after that same peevish messenger,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The county’s man: he left this ring behind him,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Would I or not: tell him I’ll none of it.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Desire him not to flatter with his lord,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Nor hold him up with hopes; I am not for him:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If that the youth will come this way to-morrow,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I’ll give him reasons for’t: hie thee, Malvolio.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Malvolio</td>
							<td>Madam, I will. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit.</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Olivia</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I do I know not what, and fear to find</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Mine eye too great a flatterer for my mind.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Fate, show thy force: ourselves we do not owe;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>What is decreed must be, and be this so. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit.</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
